Letter dated 17 May 2000 from the Permanent Representative of Rwanda to the United Nations addressed to the President of the Security Council
On instructions from my Government and as promised in my statement today, I have the honour to forward to you the joint statement on the demilitarization of Kisangani, signed in Kampala on 15 May 2000 (see annex).
I would be grateful if this statement could be circulated as a document of the Security Council.
(Signed) Joseph W. Mutaboba Ambassador Permanent Representative
Annex to the letter dated 17 May 2000 from the Permanent Representative of Rwanda to the United Nations addressed to the President of the Security Council
Joint statement on the demilitarization of Kisangani
The Governments of Uganda and Rwanda agree on the following:
Rapid implementation of the 8 May 2000 Joint Declaration on the Demilitarization of Kisangani.
To withdraw their forces from Kisangani under the auspices of MONUC-JMC monitoring team.
UPDF will withdraw to Bafwasende and Banalia while RPA will withdraw to Lubutu and Ubundu.
In no case will withdrawn forces remain closer than 100 kilometres from Kisangani.
Prior to MONUC exercising complete and neutral control over the demilitarized zone around the city and airports of Kisangani, UPDF and RPA will each retain two infantry companies of 108 personnel each, making a total of 432 officers and men.
All heavy weapons (11.5 millimetre and above, including RPGs) will be withdrawn from Kisangani and its environs to the aforementioned locations (Lubutu and Ubundu for RPA and Bafwasende and Banalia for UPDF).
UPDF and RPA will maintain one infantry platoon of 36 personnel each at Bangboka and one infantry platoon of 36 personnel each at Simi Simi airport, drawn from the aforementioned companies.
UPDF and RPA will maintain joint checkpoints at Kisangani strategic locations: Tshopo Bridge, Kabondo Junction, Lubutu-Bafwasende Junction, the ferry crossing point between Commune Gauche and Kisangani Centre Ville, Lindi Bridge and any other point within the demilitarized zone that may be identified at any time during the implementation of the demilitarization exercise.
MONUC is to patrol all the routes between Kisangani and the new points of deployments.
Each checkpoint will be manned by a section of 12 RPA personnel and 12 UPDF personnel.
The patrolling of Kisangani will be conducted jointly by RPA and UPDF in coordination with MONUC.
UPDF and RPA will reactivate the Joint Command Centre (JCC) to be composed of two officers from each force who will do liaison at the airports and with MONUC.
The principle of demilitarization of Kisangani will equally apply to all of the Congolese rebel groups, namely: MLC, RCD-ML, RCD as well as armed civilians.
MONUC will in consultation with the aforementioned Congolese rebel forces identify and designate appropriate areas of deployments of these rebel groups outside the demilitarized zone.
The Governments of Rwanda and Uganda and their rebel allies will immediately cease inflammatory media campaigns against each other.
The Governments of Rwanda and Uganda will invite Special Representative Morjane and MONUC Force Commander Diallo to accompany the Army Commander of UPDF and the Army Chief of Staff of RPA on an assessment visit to Kisangani as soon as it is practicable.
The Governments of Uganda and Rwanda agree to work constructively with the RCD, MLC, RCD-ML to ensure their adherence to the letter and spirit of demilitarization of Kisangani and this joint statement.
Upon the decision by MONUC-JMC that MONUC presence is sufficient to guarantee the security of Kisangani, all other military forces will withdraw from the city in accordance with the commitment to the full demilitarization of Kisangani and all other modalities previously agreed to with MONUC and the JMC.
In the spirit of expeditious implementation of this understanding, Uganda and Rwanda propose to make available to MONUC the four companies which will have remained in Kisangani to be deployed under their mandate should MONUC fail to raise a force within 60 days (two months).
This understanding may be reviewed by both parties whenever it is deemed necessary.
Done at Kampala, this 15th day of May 2000.
Agenda item 156
Consideration of effective measures to enhance the protection, security and safety of diplomatic and consular missions and representatives
Report of the Secretary-General
Addendum
Introduction
A report was received from the Russian Federation pursuant to paragraph 11 of General Assembly resolution 53/97 of 8 December 1998.
The text of the report is contained in section II below.
Report received from States pursuant to paragraph 11 of General Assembly resolution 53/97
The Russian Federation submitted a report, dated 14 September 2000, referring to violations involving the embassies and/or consulates of the Russian Federation in Denmark, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Lebanon, Poland and the United States of America.
The report reads as follows:
Denmark
On 31 January 2000, the premises of the consular section of the Russian Embassy in Copenhagen were attacked.  An unknown person threw two bottles filled with a flammable liquid through a window of the consular section's reception area.
The incident was exceptionally dangerous and bore all the hallmarks of a terrorist act.
Only through the courage and vigilance of the embassy staff were more serious consequences avoided.
He was seeking asylum in Denmark on the grounds that “two attempts” on his life had been made in the Russian Federation.
Finland  On 28 May 2000, a group of Finnish citizens demonstrating under the slogan “Hands off Chechnya” penetrated the compound of the consulate general in Turku and attempted to tear down the Russian flag.
Georgia
The Russian embassy in Tbilisi is operating in difficult conditions.
Since 1997, anti-Russian demonstrations and rallies have been held systematically in front of the embassy.
In 1999, the Georgian Green Party repeatedly threatened in the local media “to throw radioactive waste into the embassy compound”.
In the summer of 1999, the Ambassador's security aide was attacked.
In addition, the apartments of several embassy officials have been burgled.
The situation of the embassy and its staff became more difficult after refugees and Chechen fighters began to arrive in Georgia in connection with the anti-terrorist operations in Chechnya.
The measures taken by the Georgian authorities to enhance the security of the embassy have so far been inadequate.
On 31 December 1999, at 11.15 p.m., a group of about 25 to 30 persons in an inebriated state penetrated the grounds of the Russian embassy in Berlin from Unter den Linden Strasse, breaking the lock of the entrance gate.
Two officers of the Berlin Police's Central Department for the External Protection of Buildings who were on duty nearby failed to intervene in the situation and, moreover, left the scene of the incident, having been called away “out of concern for their personal safety”.
It was through sheer good luck that none of the embassy officials was injured.
In addition to the broken lock, the expensive embassy plaque was damaged and the facade was soiled.
A protest was lodged with the German authorities in connection with the incident.
On 6 November 1999, a rock was thrown at a building belonging to the Russian embassy in Berlin, resulting in material damage, and it was only by chance that a small child present in the embassy building was not hurt.
A representation was made to the German authorities concerning the incident.
Lebanon
On 3 January 2000, a terrorist act was committed against the Russian embassy in Beirut, which came under grenade and small arms fire.
According to the available data, the Palestinian group Osbat al-Ansar was behind the act.
The embassy immediately made contact with the Lebanese law-enforcement agencies and special services so that measures could be taken to enhance the protection of the embassy and other overseas establishments of the Russian Federation.
On 3 January, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation issued a brief press release on the incident.
On 4 January, a telephone conversation took place between Igor Ivanov and the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Lebanon, Sélim El-Hoss.
On instructions from Vladimir Putin, Mr. Ivanov expressed confidence that the Lebanese leadership would do everything to protect the lives of Russian citizens and ensure the inviolability of Russian establishments in Beirut.
On 4 January, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a second press release, giving due credit to the Lebanese authorities for their decisive actions.
On 4 January, Mr. El-Hoss telephoned the Russian embassy in Beirut and condemned the terrorist act.
On 5 January, the President of Lebanon, Émile Lahoud, in a telephone conversation with the Russian Federation's chargé d'affaires, condemned “the cowardly act against the Russian embassy” and expressed readiness to lend the necessary assistance in the area of security.
At present, heightened security remains in place at the embassy, since from time to time there are indications of the possibility of new terrorist acts.
Poland
On 23 February 2000, during a regular demonstration by anti-Russian extremist elements, the Russian Federation's consulate general in Poznań was attacked.
In the course of the incident, the inviolability of the Russian consulate general was breached, the Russian State flag was defiled, the building of the consulate general suffered material damage and the lives of its officials were threatened.
Unknown persons have repeatedly threatened to perpetrate terrorist acts against the Russian embassy in Warsaw and the secondary school attached to the embassy.
The anti-Russian demonstrations outside the embassy building, which are organized by Polish pro-Chechen organizations, continue, accompanied by acts of hooliganism.
Third session
3-17 March 2000
Agenda item 2
Preparations for the special session of the General Assembly entitled “Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century”
Further actions and initiatives to implement the Beijing Declaration and the Platform for Action
Proposed outcome document submitted by the Chairperson of the preparatory committee
Achievements and obstacles in the implementation of the twelve critical areas of the Platform for Action
[Assessment of achievements and obstacles must be made in relation to the commitments made in the Beijing Platform for Action and its 12 critical areas, namely by looking into the actions taken and the results attained, as indicated in national reports as well as in reports of the Secretary-General, [the results of regional meetings held in preparation for the special session of the General Assembly] and other relevant sources.
Such assessment shows that, even though significant positive developments can be identified, barriers remain and there is still the need to further implement the goals and commitments made in Beijing.
The summary of achievements and of persistent or new obstacles can, therefore, constitute a global framework for the identification of further actions and initiatives to [overcome obstacles and] to achieve the full [and accelerated] implementation of the Platform for Action at all levels and in all areas.
Women and poverty
Efforts have been made to integrate a gender perspective into poverty eradication policies and programmes by Governments, in cooperation with non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
Multilateral, international and regional financial institutions are also giving increased attention to the incorporation of a gender perspective into their policies.
Progress has been made by pursuing a two-pronged approach of promoting employment and income-generating activities for women and providing access to basic social services, including education and health care.
Micro-credit and other financial instruments for women have emerged as a successful strategy for economic empowerment and have widened economic opportunities for some women living in poverty in particular in rural areas.
Policy development has taken account of the particular needs of female-headed households.
Research has enhanced the understanding of the differing impacts of poverty on women and men and tools have been developed to assist with this assessment.
[Policies and programmes have been implemented to strengthen the family in performing its societal and developmental roles, including the recognition of the vital role of women in the family and gender equality as essential to family well-being.
Debt burdens, [high/excessive] military spending, [inconsistent with national security requirements, unilateral coercive measures not in accordance with international law and Charter of the United Nations, [national and ethnic conflicts] [armed conflicts of international and non-international character,] [sanctions, foreign occupation], [sanctions, terrorism,] low levels of [official development assistance and the unfulfilled commitment to meet the yet to be attained internationally agreed target of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product (GNP) of developed countries for overall] official development assistance as well as the lack of efficient use of resources, among other factors can hinder have thwarted national efforts to combat poverty.
[Lack of remuneration of reproductive and [social] work], [gender disparities in economic power-sharing], unequal access to [and control over] capital, resources and labour markets as well as socio-cultural practices [and unequal distribution of unremunerated work between women and men], [the absence of efficient gender-oriented programmes, and the consequences for income-related social security systems] hinder women's economic empowerment and exacerbate the feminization of poverty.
[In addition, gender inequalities and disparities in economic power-sharing, unequal distribution of unremunerated work between women and men, lack of technological and financial support for women's entrepreneurship, unequal access to, and control over, capital and resources, in particular land and credit and access to labour markets, as well as all negative social and traditional practices, have thwarted women's economic empowerment and exacerbated the feminization of poverty.
[The negative consequences of globalization and structural adjustment programmes, high costs of external debt servicing and declining terms of international trade have worsened the existing obstacles to development, aggravating the feminization of poverty, particularly in the developing countries.
In this context, the economic crisis that has hit several countries has had a devastating impact on women and has further increased the feminization of poverty.
For most developing countries, the terms of international trade have worsened and inflows of concessional financial resources have declined.
The high debt burden has weakened the capacity of many Governments to service their increasing external debt and has eroded resources available for social development.
Inappropriate design of structural adjustment programmes has weakened the management capacity of public institutions as well as the ability of Governments to respond to the social development needs of the weak and vulnerable in society and to provide adequate social services, aggravating the feminization of poverty.